# DataTools4Heart Feature Extraction Suite
This repository contains feature extraction definitions that process patient data represented in the DT4H CDM and tranform it to a tabular format, which would be used to train ML models. Feature extraction process is realized via four main concepts, namely **populations**, **feature groups**, **feature sets** and **pipelines**.

Broadly, the feature extraction suite extracts patients' data from the FHIR patient data repository based on population definition. 

Then, feature groups' main aim is to extract a group of raw features for specific healthcare resources such as conditions, medications, lab measurements, etc. For each feature group a timeseries table is created such that
  * Each record specified matching to the FHIR query of the feature group will be mapped as a row in the table
  * Each feature defined in the feature group will be converted a column in the table

In the next step, feature sets work on the timeseries data generated by the feature groups to extract the final tabular dataset. Feature sets allow the following dataset manipulations:
  * Identification of reference time points that would lead to data points in the final dataset
  * Grouping data based on the reference time points in configurable time periods 
  * Applying aggregations on the grouped data

Pipelines are used to associate feature sets and populations. This indicates that a dataset, as configured by the feature sets, will be generated for the specified population in the pipeline.

## Current Definitions
When looked into the current definitions, the feature group defined so far are mainly driven by the DT4H CDM profiles, vital signs, encounters, electrocardiographs, medications, etc. 

The _study-features.json_ contains the input (independent) and output (dependent) variables that are required for the sub-study 1, which is "Medication prescription in patients with acute heart failure and chronic kidney disease or hyperkalaemia".

---

# Deployment Guideline (with Nginx)

## Prerequisites

- Completing the deployment instructions of the [data-ingestion-suite](https://github.com/DataTools4Heart/data-ingestion-suite).

## Clone the Repository

After mapping the data source to the common data model, the feature extraction process can be started. DT4H feature extraction configurations are maintained in the project’s GitHub repository.

Navigate into a working directory to run the tools: `<workspaceDir>`

```bash
git clone https://github.com/DataTools4Heart/feature-extraction-suite
```

## Run Docker Containers

Run the following scripts in the `<workspaceDir>`:

```bash
sh ./feature-extraction-suite/docker/pull.sh
sh ./feature-extraction-suite/docker/run.sh
```

## Running Behind Nginx Configuration

* For `feature-extraction-suite` deployment, [data-ingestion-suite](https://github.com/DataTools4Heart/data-ingestion-suite) must first be deployed successfully and mapping must be run.
If you used the Nginx Docker container during the `data-ingestion-suite` deployment, 
update the Nginx config for `feature-extraction-suite` by following these steps:

```bash
# Navigate into the working directory
cd <workspaceDir>

# Stop the current proxy
./data-ingestion-suite/docker/proxy/stop.sh

# Edit the ./data-ingestion-suite/docker/proxy/nginx.conf file
# Uncomment the following lines:
# location /dt4h/feast {
#     proxy_pass http://dt4h-feast:8085/onfhir-feast;
#     proxy_set_header Host $host;
#     proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
# }

# Restart the proxy
./data-ingestion-suite/docker/proxy/run.sh
```

* Or, if your host machine is already running Nginx, insert the following proxy configuration and restart Nginx:

```nginx
location /dt4h/feast {
    proxy_pass http://<hostname>:<port>/onfhir-feast;
    proxy_set_header Host $host;
    proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
}
```

## Starting Feature Extraction

* To start the feature extraction process for a specific study, use the following cURL commands. Replace `<hostname>` with your server hostname.

### Study 1

```shell
curl -X POST 'http://<hostname>/dt4h/feast/api/DataSource/myFhirServer/FeatureSet/study1-fs/Population/study1_cohort/$extract?entityMatching=pid|pid,encounterId|encounterId&reset=true'
```

### Study 2

```shell
curl -X POST 'http://<hostname>/dt4h/feast/api/DataSource/myFhirServer/FeatureSet/study2-fs/Population/study1_cohort/$extract?entityMatching=pid|pid,encounterId|encounterId&reset=true'
```

### Study 3

```shell
curl -X POST 'http://<hostname>/dt4h/feast/api/DataSource/myFhirServer/FeatureSet/study3-fs/Population/study3_cohort/$extract?entityMatching=pid|pid,encounterId|encounterId&reset=true'
```

* The extraction process may take a long time to complete depending on the size of data.

* After completion, the dataset will be available in the following location. For example:

```
<workspaceDir>/feature-extraction-suite/output-data/myFhirServer/dataset/study1-fs/<datasetId>/part-00000-550c22da-d8e3-4113-8b3a-8d935e77ee06-c000.snappy.parquet
```

### Dataset Statistics

* For statistics (metadata) about the datasets:

```
https://<hostname>/dt4h/feast/api/Dataset
```

* For statistics (metadata) about a specific dataset:

```
https://<hostname>/dt4h/feast/api/Dataset/<datasetId>
```
